---
title: "life.swp"
date: "2020-06-16"
---

Kind of a quick update just to keep the flow of writing.

Last weekend I registered for [keybase][0]; got my new email address, m at
stdwtr.io, working with everything; got my old email domain (still active),
standingwater.io, ported over to fastmail; and updated all my passwords in
passwordstore to a new gpg key, [mas88 \<m@stdwtr.io\>][1].

Porting the new gpg key to my two yubikeys was a bit of a nightmare. I was
following the [yubikey guide][2] and treating it entirely too nonchalantly for
someone who hasn't mucked about with gpg cards for almost a year and a half. I
ended up creating three different subkeys and the last one was for both signing
and encrypting. The result being that for whatever reason the passwordstore was
being encrypted with a different subkey than I was porting to the yubikey.
Scrapped the last subkey, created a new one just for signing, re-ported
everything over to the two yubikeys, and I was back in business. Kind of a
nightmare as it went, though.

One thing I'm super happy about is all the backing up I did. I have the spare
yubikey, but I also take the [3-2-1 rule][3] a bit farther than it warrants.

The 3-2-1 rule states that data should be backed up with 3 different copies, on
2 different mediums, and one copy should be offsite.

So here's what I do:

- 3 locations: my bedroom, a fireproof Sentry lockbox in a National Security
  safe, and hidden in a company warehouse.
- 3 (technically 4) media: two flash sticks, two paper copies of the
  ascii-armored key, two paper copies of the key as [QR codes][4], and two cd's
  burned with the key, revocation certificate, and QR code pdf.

It is highly likely that I will never need this much backup protection, but it
didn't seem that difficult to produce the extra backup once I was producing just
a little. The warehouse copy is stored in a tyvek envelope sealed with packaging
tape so it's pretty impervious to moisture. In general, I feel pretty backed up.

The reason this is so much easier is because I don't _need_ to back up most of
my data. My passwords are a passwordstore repo stored in a private repo on my
Github, 3 different personal computers, and my phone. Most of everything else
that's important to me is a Github repo stored on Github. So the only thing I
have to be extra careful with is my gpg key.

So anyway, besides the gpg key and all the other stuff, I'm still working
through Kaggle's material and I started learning Go with Kernighan's book. I'm
also dicking around with Rust. I feel like I need a systems language. And I'm
continuing to mess with HackerRank. I should consider going more in depth with
algos and data structures. I don't know much general graph theory.

Anyway, that's it for today.

Oh, and if you're curious about the naming scheme on this post, a status update
seemed kinda like an autosave, so I went with the name scheme vim uses for
autosaved files. It takes the current file and appends `.swp`. `¯\_(ツ)_/¯` I'm
a dork, sue me.

[0]: https://keybase.io/m88
[1]: http://keys.gnupg.net/pks/lookup?op=vindex&fingerprint=on&search=0xF6B84F:w
[2]:
  https://support.yubico.com/support/solutions/articles/15000006420-using-your-yubikey-with-openpgp
[3]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backup#Storage
[4]: https://gist.github.com/mas-4/8db0ee9fc2ed7f79e1e3439f30b0f248
