---
title: "vote.py"
date: "2020-06-11"
---

[Github Repository for vote.py][0]

I have a friend, let's call her Blaine, who is a reliable liberal, but has never
voted. She's 28 and has never registered. I pushed and I pushed and I pushed in
2018 but she never did.

Well, this time is going to be different. And I'm seeing to it.

I wrote a script to bug her by sending a text repeatedly, on a tightening
schedule, until the deadline for registration to vote in November in Florida.

The code for sending the texts was incredibly easy (though it cost around \$20).
This might be attributable to the fact that I've done it before. (Some time ago
I wrote a script to run in the background of my home desktop querying
[icanhazip.com][1] periodically, saving the result to a text file, and texting
me if it changed.) You can literally just copy the code in the [Twilio docs][1]
and it will work. Super simple.

The code for getting the scheduler to run was a bit less trivial. It required
some thinking, but wasn't as difficult as I was anticipating. I want to talk
about the strategy I employ in vote.py here.

# Scheduling

My requirements for this were pretty simple: I wanted to text Blaine on a
periodic basis, wherein the period shrank exponentially. But, I wanted to avoid
texting her at midnight, or outside certain pre-designated working hours.

    def runschedule(duedate, to, body, test):
        try:
            message = sendtext(to, body)
            SIDS.append((message, time.time()))
        except:
            print("Message failed. Trying again next time.")

        s = scheduler(time.time, time.sleep)
        seconds = getseconds(duedate, test)

        s.enter(seconds, 1, runschedule, argument=(duedate, to, body, test))
        s.run()

`Sched.scheduler` works by entering the number of seconds to sleep until it
triggers a function which is passed through `sched.scheduler.enter()`. You can
schedule multiple events with different sleep times, but [the strategy for a
continuous repeating event is apparently to use the function to reschedule the
event][3]. Basically, just use it recursively. For me, this is the function
[`runschedule()`][4].

I program somewhat iteratively and composably (if that's a word), so my next
question was: how do I get the number of seconds until a given date and time?

    def getseconds(duedate):
        freq = DEFAULTFREQ
        timetogo = duedate - dt.datetime.now()

        try:
            seconds = freq[timetogo.days // 30] # interval of months
        except IndexError:
            seconds = freq[-1]

        seconds = checkho(seconds)
        return seconds

This is actually still a fairly simple task. I have a habit of coding something
stupidly first and then fixing it more logically, so I started with a dictionary
keyed on "months until the due date" before I remembered that I could just use a
damn array. I generate the array as an exponential function: [`2^x * 1800`][5].
Then, in [`getseconds()`][6], to determine the seconds until next event, I take
the difference between the due date and now using `datetime.datetime` (which is
an awesome damn library) and divide the number of days left by 30 (so,
essentially the months left). That gives the index in `DEFAULTFREQ` and the
seconds 'til T-Time.

    def checkho(seconds):
        ho = DEFAULTHO
        delta = dt.timedelta(seconds=seconds)
        t_time = dt.datetime.now() + delta

        if t_time.hour < ho[0]:
            t_time = t_time.replace(hour=ho[0])
            delta = t_time - dt.datetime.now()
            print("Text would be too early, rescheduling...")
        elif t_time.hour >= ho[1]:
            t_time = t_time.replace(day=t_time.day+1, hour=ho[0])
            delta = t_time - dt.datetime.now()
            print("Text would be too late, rescheduling...")

        return delta.seconds

But, now that I have that, that's not enough to schedule the text, because Now +
Seconds could be outside the acceptable Hours of Operation. So I wrote
[`checkho()`][7]. Checkho takes the seconds determined in `getseconds()`,
determines the date and time that is by adding
`datetime.timedelta(seconds=seconds)` to now, and then determing whether the
resulting `t_time` is before `DEFAULTHO[0]` or after `DEFAULTHO[1]`. In either
case, I just reschedule at the next `DEFAULTHO[0]`.

So there you have it. Surprisingly simple once it's written, like all code. I've
texted Blaine a handful of times already. The next text will go out tonight at
8:08.

[0]: https://github.com/mas-4/vote
[1]: https://icanhazip.com/
[2]: https://www.twilio.com/docs/libraries/python
[3]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/2399145/9691276
[4]:
  https://github.com/mas-4/vote/blob/802cda7cfa12fca74e8ecf800a9244b3c0a4e04a/vote.py#L85-L101
[5]: https://github.com/mas-4/vote/blob/master/vote.py#L21
[6]: https://github.com/mas-4/vote/blob/master/vote.py#L56-L82
[7]: https://github.com/mas-4/vote/blob/master/vote.py#L35-L53
