---
title: "résumé.tex"
date: "2020-06-12"
---

Today I decided to remake my résumé. Or, last night, rather.

I'm a self-taught developer. I have yet to hold a software developer position.
Nearly everything on my résumé with any relevance to the positions I'm applying
to now is a personal project. So most résumés fit me badly. They almost always
require work experience and give it way more emphasis than I want. _I_ need to
leverage my projects, because why the hell would anyone care about my work
experience when it's completely irrelevant to the job at hand?

(I'm fluent in French and recently learned how to use both `ctrl-k` in Vim and
the Compose key and so if you have a problem with me writing résumé with the
accents so often you should just stop reading 😝.)

I had been using for a while a crappy docx rendered to pdf. It consisted of a
single main column body with the following:

1. a statement
2. a double column list of skills (which was extensive)
3. a list of 4 projects
4. my education (I never completed my degree so I can't list it, but I only have
   a handful of credits missing so I pretty much just list the years at which
   school I attended)
5. my "Experience," which was a joke because none of the jobs listed were
   relevant.

I recently built this blog and the accompanying site and they're both, in my
opinion, gorgeous. I love them. I love writing for this blog. (I love this blog
more than I love the main site, mostly because I built it from scratch.) I have
my LinkedIn set up, my StackOverflow Developer Story, and my GitHub curated. Why
am I still using this crappy Word résumé?

So last night I decided I'd start working on a new one. My buddy told me he uses
[creddle.io](https://creddle.io), so I tried that. Their selection of résumé
templates was very limited, so I gave up on that after building it out. I know
the hell out of Photoshop (it's not included on my résumé because I'm not going
for frontend dev but I've been using PS for almost 20 years now), so I started
trying that out (actually, I started in Gimp and was reminded why I can't use
that program for any but the simplest tasks). I tried making one from scratch
using my headshot and my favorite picture from the Osceola National Forest
Wikipedia article. That was crap. I found some templates online, downloaded one,
and started to rewrite it. Turns out PS can't handle links in PSD's. I literally
cannot generate a PDF with links in it using PS. And that seems like an
essential function of a résumé to me, so I scratched that option.

Next I looked into alternative ways to make a résumé. I googled tools (there are
a ton of WYSIWYG tools but they all cost), sites (I tried [resume.io](resume.io)
and discovered it, too, sucks like creddle.io). Next, I remembered LaTeX. I'd
googled for latex résumé templates a few weeks ago and turned up nothing great,
but I wanted something that (a) was pretty and (b) I could manipulate fairly
well. I much prefer to manipulate words than pictures, anyway, because they seem
more precise to me (that is to say, I prefer words to WYSIWYG). This time I
struck gold. I found [latextemplates.com](https://latextemplates.com), and all
of his gorgeous
[CV résumés](https://www.latextemplates.com/cat/curricula-vitae).

I went with the
[Developer CV](https://www.latextemplates.com/template/developer-cv) and rewrote
the Experience portion as Projects and the Non Profit section as Strengths and
it was good to go. I'm in love with it. You can see it
[here](https://github.com/mas-4/resume/blob/master/main.pdf).

Best of all, I feel like I've gotten a good taste of LaTeX and now I want to
learn way, waaaay more. My buddy, Ethan, was ragging on the bars and circles and
I have to say as well I'm not sure if I'm a fan. I think they're eye catching,
and that might be all they need to be, but I can fit way more skills in there if
I eliminated them. If I learn more LaTeX I can do a lot more manipulation on
this sucker.

I actually emailed the author, Vel, to thank him because I was so appreciative
of the template and experience. But more to express my admiration, not at the CV
I chose, but at
[this incredible work of art](https://www.latextemplates.com/template/compact-academic-cv).
It is simply gorgeous. I cannot believe how brilliantly laid out it is.
[Just look at it](https://www.latextemplates.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/cv_5-724x1024.jpg).
The way it's concentrated on one side of the page, only barely reaching past the
half way point on one line. The spacing, the room to breathe. I don't know what
it is, like, I'm not even a typography fanboy or anything, but I absolutely love
this sheet of paper. It's like hearing DeBussy's Claire de Lune for the first
time.

I'm gushing. I'll leave you here. I just want to say, LaTeX is awesome and I
can't wait to learn more. I'm incredibly grateful to Vel at latextemplates.com
for creating these gorgeous templates that serve as an inspiration to learn more
LaTeX. And I'm excited to start sending this guy out.

Oh, before I finish, anothing thing I'm excited about: if you look at the email
on my new résumé you'll see m@stdwtr.io. I started finding during this process
that malan88@standingwater.io was a little cumbersome, too long for the lines.
So I decided, why not buy a domain name that's short, like youtu.be or bit.ly,
for my own sites? I'm using it now for a redirect for my servers, too.

m@stdwtr.io is not active yet (I'm still waiting for the MX records to
propagate, or for FastMail to get it's crap together), but once it's done
propagating I'm going to be migrating \*@standingwater.io to FastMail as well,
and then I'll add m@standingwater.io as an alias, too. In my experience,
malan88@standingwater.io is too long to type and too complicated to say. The
first part is too complicated to say, the second part too long to write. So I'll
be giving m@standingwater.io out over the phone, and m@stdwtr.io when I write.
So there we have it.

Finally, I just wanted to also mention, I'm a little reticent about using 88 in
all my usernames/emails. It's my birth year, and I like it, but it's also used
by Neo-Nazi's to say "Heil Hitler" because H is the 8th letter of the alphabet.
I'll probably be changing my usernames in the near future, migrating to mas or
something. (malan was Michael Alan.)

**Update 7/10/21:** I changed it. It's mostly my initials everywhere, mas.
Github became mas-4, stackoverflow mas, my email m@standingwater.io. I like the
number 4 a lot, and it's my birthday, so I guess it'll do.
