---
title: "Hurricane Log"
date: "2022-09-26"
---

# 9-26 5:50 PM

So! A hurricane is a-comin'.

Been some years (5 to be exact, and because of hurricane season, I mean it
exactly. It was 2 weeks and 5 years ago ago today, September 12, 2017).

Ironically, [Irma][irma] was exactly 57 years after [Hurricane Donna][donna], and
followed _exactly_ the same path.

It's supposed to reach us tomorrow night, I just finished a day of work and
frantically putting outdoor potential debris away. Only halfish done (probably
less).

Gonna work tomorrow, and put more potential debris away.

We're not planning on evacuating, or boarding. We've gone through this before
and boarding is a _bitch_ for us, but luckily, the wind will be from the south
this time instead of the north, and our south side is more protected.

Anyway, I'm stocking up on deep learning documentation to keep working on my new
[bslearn][bslearn] project, a neural net in C. Won't have internet access, so
documentation and books are important. I have a Macbook Air M2 and it has insane
battery life so I should be good on that front.

[donna]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hurricane_Donna
[irma]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hurricane_Irma

# 9-26 8:14 PM

We got gas this morning, I'm pretty sure we have a lot of water. Nobody is
boarding their windows around us except one of our 25 or so neighbors (we are
bordered by about 25 houses, no kidding) except one, who's only boarding his
little kids windows. We're on the border of Zone C, which is under mandatory
evacuation, but until like 2-3 years ago we were under Zone D for like 20 years,
and Zone D is _not_ under evacuation orders, and we're about as elevated as them
so we're not worried about it and aren't evacuating.

We went through all our flashlights, making sure they were working and throwing
out the ones that aren't (we have about 15 working flashlights and lanterns).
Tomorrow we'll be cleaning up more Potential Debris (PD™ from here on out).

Brothers are coming home tonight, probably be here in about 2 hours. Nick's
house is probably under mandatory evac, so he'll probably be staying here for
the storm. Which means more time with his dogs which have been sleeping in my
room since Thursday (it's Monday).

I'm excited to work on bslearn. But it might get pretty hard. With no Internet
and no TV and just an ipad and a macbook and books to use I will probably get a
lot done. We'll see.

I might try to play some new games I bought. I've been into boomer shooters
lately. Hey, I should by Prodeus and Ultrakill.
